The route classifier
--------------------

Handles.

  The route classifiers handle's are opaque 32 bit numbers
  specified in decimal.  The route classifier will allocate
  them for you as you add filter items.  You are not allowed
  to add two filter items with exactly the same conditions.
  They will have duplicate handles.

Execution.

  The route filter looks for a filter item whose 'to', 'from'
  and 'fromif' match the packet.  If it finds such a filter
  item it classifies the packet, otherwise it fails to do so.
  
  The search condition may contain wild cards because the 'to'
  or 'from' realm/link can be left unspecified.  This means
  several filter items may match the packet.  This is how the
  ambiguity is resolved:

  1.  If a filter item with no wild parts matches it is used,
      otherwise,
  2.  If a filter item with a wild 'from' part matches it is
      used, otherwise,
  3.  If a filter item with a wild 'to' part matches it  is
      used, otherwise,
  4.  If the filter with both 'to' and 'from' parts wild is
      used if present, otherwise
  5.  The packet is not classified.

Options.

  classid :<classify-spec>: | flowid :<classify-spec>:
    This is required.  It :classifies: the packet.

  from realm
    If specified the packets from realm, as set with the
    "ip route" and "ip rule" commands, must match this
    value.  The value must lie between 1 and 255.  You can
    not specify this and the fromif option in the same
    filter item.

  fromif link
    If specified the packets must come from this link, as
    listed by the "ip link" command.  You can not specify
    this and the from option in the same filter item.  Note:
    in iproute2 2.2.4 there is a bug in tc which prevents "tc"
    from recognising the link name.  If you fix the bug there
    is another bug which causes the "tc filter list" command to
    get a memory fault when displaying a filter item that uses
    fromif.

  police :<police-spec>:
    :Police: the packet.

  to realm
    If specified the packets to realm, as set with the "ip
    route" and "ip rule" commands, must match this value.
    The value must lie between 1 and 255.

Comments.

- The realms are set by the router, ie the 'ip route' and 'ip rule'
  commands.  There are several ways the router can set the realms,
  they are listed below in order of preference.  The first rule that
  sets each realm is used.  This is done independently for the from
  and to realms.

    a.  The from realm is set from the "ip route" that applied
        to the outgoing packet.
    b.  The from realm is set to the from realm in the "ip rule"
	that applies to the outgoing packet.  The to realm is set
	to realm in the "ip rule".
    c.  A reverse route lookup is done.  A reverse route lookup
        means the packet has its source and destination IP's
	swapped, then the routing table is looked up.  The to
	realm is set from the "ip route" that matched the
	reversed route.
    d.  The from realm is set to the to realm in "ip rule" that
        matches the reversed route.  The to realm is set to the
	from realm in the "ip rule" that matched the reversed
	route.
