Virtual Devices
---------------

Virtual devices are implemented in software.  Examples are tunnels
and the loop back device.  The other type of device is called a
"physical device".  Physical devices have hardware associated with
them, like an Ethernet card.  In almost every way virtual devices
and physical devices are treated identically by the traffic control
engine.  Nonetheless there is one but small, but crucial, difference
between the two.

The rate a physical device can send packets is determined by its
underlying hardware.  For example a PPP connection over an ISDN
device can transmit data at 64kbit per second.  If packets arrive
faster than that they are placed in the PPP connections input
queue.  Contrast this to a virtual device, which processes
packets given to it instantly.  This is because typically all a
virtual device has to do is modify the packet then pass it onto
another device to send.  Since packets are processed instantly
the virtual device's input queue will always be empty when a
packet arrives.

Now look at how this effects a queuing discipline.  Take for example
the default queuing discipline, pfifo_fast.  pfifo_fast ensures that
when several packets are waiting in a devices input queue the higher
priority ones are always sent first.  But for a virtual device there
will never be more one packet in the input queue, so the pfifo_fast
queuing discipline has no effect on the order the virtual device
send packets.

This is true in general for all queuing disciplines that simply
reorder waiting packets.  So queuing disciplines such as unbounded
cbq, sfq, prio, etc will not work when attached to a virtual
device.  On the other hand queuing disciplines that alter the rate
at which packets are sent, such as tbf and bounded cbq, will work
and are often so are useful with virtual devices.

Now back to my original comment that virtual devices and physical
devices are treated identically in _almost_ every way by the traffic
control engine.  The almost refers to the queuing discipline
attached to the device when it is first created.  Physical devices
have the pfifo_fast queuing discipline attached to them when they
are created.  Virtual devices have the noqueue queuing discipline
attached to them when they are created.
